# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

The fields to be filled by the user are:

=over

=item * kernel : string

The path to the kernel image to be used for the network boot.

=item * initrd : string

The path to the initrd image to be used for the network boot.

=item * kslocation : absoluteURI

The absolute URL to the kickstart file. The substring LOCALHOST will be
replaced with the name of the boot server, which may be useful if there
are multiple boot servers.

=item * ksdevice : string

The device to be used for grabbing the Kickstart file. Must be either
C<link> for using the first device with link up, C<eth?> for network
devices, C<fd> for floppy disks or C<bootif> for the device used to
download the PXE boot loader.

=item * label : string

An informative label to be shown at boot time.

=item * append ? string

Additional kernel parameters.

=item * rescue ? string

Name of the PXE configuration file used for rescue mode. Usually the
OS version used to build the rescue image matches the OS of the live
system, to avoid possible compatibility issues.

=item * livecd ? string

Name of the PXE configuration file used to boot a "Live CD" image.

=item * firmware ? string

Name of the PXE configuration used for firmware updates. Useful if some
firmware cannot be updated from the live system.

=item * setifnames ? boolean

Set all the network interface names for each configured interfaces MAC-address (EL7+). 

=item * updates ? string

A url that point to a anaconda updates image.

=back

=head2 VARIABLES

The variables exposed to users are:

=over

=item * AII_KS_PATH : string

Kickstart path inside the AII server. Defaults to "/ks" if the
installation is made via HTTP or "/osinstall/ks" otherwise.

=item * AII_KS_CONFIG_FILE : string

Path to the KS file inside the server. Defaults to AII_KS_PATH +
FULL_HOSTNAME.

=item * AII_NBP_LABEL : string

Label for the boot loader.

=item * AII_NBP_ROOT : string

Relative path (from /osinstall/nbp) of the initrd and kernel.

=item * AII_NBP_KERNELPARAMS ? string

Optional variable. Contains additional parameters be added at boot
time, such as "noacpi".

=item * AII_NBP_INITRD ? string

Exact name of the initrd file. Defaults to "initrd.img".

=back

=head2 HOOKS

Hooks available from pxelinux aii:

=over

=item * rescue:

Sets the node's status to rescue.

=item * install:

Sets the node's status to install.

=item * remove:

Sets the node's status to remove.

=item * configure:

Sets the node's hardware configuration (VMs).

=item * boot:

Sets the node's status to boot from local.

=item * firmware:

Sets the node's status to boot from firmware.

=item * livecd:

Sets the node's status to boot from livecd.

=back

=cut

