# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=encoding utf8

=pod

=head1 AII-update

This manual page describes the differences between AII versions 1 and 2.

=head2 What is new?

AII was completely redesigned to make it more flexibile, maintainable
and more robust. New features include a plugin and hooks framework,
allowing for the use of different network boot or OS install
distributions. Via the L<ncm-lib-blockdevices(@MANSECT@)> helper
library, complex block device configurations are supported.

These changes are described below in more detail.

=head3 Plugins for generating the Kickstart and PXE configuration

AII version 1 used template files for the generation of the OS
installation (Kickstart) file and the network boot setup
(PXE). Version 2 of AII no longer uses these template files. Instead,
it uses C<plugins> for the configuration of the network boot and OS
installation setups.

The plugins are Perl modules that are dynamically loaded by the AII
front end aii-shellfe. The plugin code is responsible for writing the
configuration for a specific tool (e.g. Kickstart, PXE) based on the
information in the host profile.

The plugin approach has the advantage that other OS installation or
boot tools may be used, when a corresponding plugin has been
developed. Furthermore, the plugins are written in plain Perl code,
which the authors consider easier to maintain than the code for the
NCM template processor used by AII version 1.

Plugins may allow for additional configuration on a per-user basis via
hooks.  Hooks are additional modules -defined by the user- to perform
specific tasks in addition to the default configuration. Support for
user or site-specific changes is thus possible without exposing it to
all other users.  This allows for easier maintenance of the parts of
generic relevance, as opposed to adding all specific features in one
huge template.  See L<aii-hooks(8)> for more details on hooks.

There are currently two plugins: L<aii-ks(8)> for the
generation of the Kickstart setup, and L<aii-pxelinux(8)> for
the PXE network boot setup.  Although, these plugins are in fact
optional, they are required to achieve the same functionality in
version 2 as offered by AII version 1. The plugins aii-ks and
aii-pxelinux are provided as separate packages.


=head3 Pan schema

Comparing AII versions 1 and 2, there are various changes in the Pan
schema.

In AII version 1, the configuration for network boot and OS
installation was stored under /system/aii/nbp/options and
/system/aii/osinstall/options, respectively.  AII's schema did not
explicitly define the supported fields and their values. Hence, there
was no compile-time checking for the correctness of the user-specified
configuration. Errors were only found when running the AII command
line tool, or worse, when installing a node. The default plugins for
AII version 2 use strict type checking to catch errors at compile
time.

For most fields, it is no longer needed to directly change the values
under the Pan path /system/aii. Instead, variables can be used to
specify these values. A sensible default value is defined for most
variables. See the documentation for L<aii-ks(8)> and
L<aii-pxelinux(8)> for a description of the supported fields
and variables.

AII version 2 offers enhanced support for various types of block
devices.  Furthermore, it allows for stacking block devices on top of
each other.  For example, various RAID devices may be combined in a
logical volume group. The changes in the Pan schema to enable these
features, are implemented via the library
L<ncm-lib-blockdevices(8)>.


=head2 Upgrading from AII release 1

Apart from some site-specific configuration, the default plugins
aii-ks and aii-nbp should work out of the box.

It is not possible to have concurrent installations of AII versions
1 and 2 on the same server.

=head3 Configuration files

All AII-related configuration files are now found under /etc/aii/ instead of
directly under /etc.

=head3 Schema changes

The steps below summarize which actions should be taken to migrate an existing
Pan configuration for AII version to version 2.

1. Define the required Pan variables for AII, and define any of the optional
variables to use another value than the default.

2. Use ncm-lib-blockdevices in favor of the Pan function set_partitions().
See the documentation in L<ncm-lib-blockdevices(8)> for details.

3. Ensure that there are no remaining entries C</system/aii/osinstall/options>
and C</system/aii/nbp/options> in the Pan hierarchy. The presence of these
branches will make AII believe that there are OS installation and network boot
plugins called C<options>. Since those plugins are probably not defined, a
run-time error will occur.


=head2 Contributing plugins or hooks

As mentioned above, it is possible to develop your own plugin or hooks.
If you write a plugin or hook that might be of interest for other users,
please share it!

If you have write access to Quattor's CVS repository at CERN, you can
add your component in a new directory under
C<quattor/aii/plug-ins/contrib/plugins> or
C<quattor/aii/plug-ins/contrib/hooks>.
If you do no have write access, or for other questions, please contact the
maintainers of AII.


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<aii(8)>, L<aii-shellfe(8)>, L<aii-dhcp(8)>,
L<aii-hooks(8)>, L<aii-ks(8)>, L<aii-pxelinux(8)>

=head1 AUTHORS

Ronald Starink <ronalds@nikhef.nl>, Luis Fernando Muñoz Mejías <luisf.munnoz@uam.es>, Michel Jouvin <jouvin@lal.in2p3.fr>

=cut
