# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=encoding utf8

=pod

=head1 Hooks for customizing kickstart creation on AII

The generation of the Kickstart configuration file may be customized
via C<hooks>. Hooks are a sort of components which are executed from
the Kickstart plugin.

Using hooks allows for extending the default generation of the
Kickstart file. It offers flexibility to implement new features or
site-specific configuration on a per-user or per-site basis. Apart
from improved flexibility, separating the implementation of specific
features from the core Kickstart file generation, helps to keep the
latter clean and easy to maintain.

The concept of hooks is supported by the new Kickstart generator
L<aii-ks(8)>, but can be used in the exact same way by any other
AII plug-in. For instance, a Jumpstart generator might want to use the
same hook architecture.


=head2 What is a hook?

A hook is just a funny name for a component that is instantiated and
executed inside another component. The API is slightly different than
that of NCM components, and the definitions must be made in a
different place. Nevertheless, the concept is the same.

=head2 Kickstart hooks

Currently, hooks can be inserted in five places inside the Kickstart:

=over

=item During the Anaconda directives phase

These hooks allow to place additional, otherwise unsupported Anaconda
directives. It's meant for the very special cases where the official
partitioning layout is not wanted.

=item In the pre-installation phase

These hooks will be executed before the actual installation is
performed. More precisely, they will be executed after block devices
such as partitions, LVM or software RAID are created.

=item In the post-installation phase

These hooks will be executed after the basic installation has been
performed, but before the node reboots. Actually, they will be
executed before kernels are installed and GRUB is configured.

=item In the post-reboot phase

After the first reboot, a script is executed for configuring some
basic services that will make Quattor work. This includes CCM and
installing Quattor base packages. Hooks can be run after all the base
Quattor packages have ben installed and before CCM is configured.

=back

=head2 NBP hooks

Hooks can be placed to run on network boot actions. Currently provided
hooks are run:

=over

=item When marking a node for installation

When marking a node for installation (C<aii-shellfe --install>, a
C<install> hook can be defined.

=item When marking a node for normal boot

When marking a node for normal boot, a C<boot> hook can be defined.

=item When marking a node for rescue boot

=item When removing a node from the installation infrastructure

=back

During each phase, an arbitrary number of hooks can be executed. This
allows the combination of several small customizations, that may be
shared among users.

=head2 Defining hooks

Hooks are defined as part of the AII structure. They have their own
subtree under AII's tree, so compile-time checks can be performed on any
hook.

The subtree is C</system/aii/hooks>, and the hooks for the Kickstart
are:

=over 4

=item C<anaconda> for adding oficcially unsupported Anaconda directives

These hooks run at the end of the Kickstart directives section.

=item C<pre_install> for C<%pre> phase hooks.

These hooks are run after the partitioning code has been generated.

=item C<post_install> for C<%post> phase hooks.

These hooks are run before any kernel installations are done, on the
C<%post> phase.

=item C<pre_reboot> for the very end of C<%post> phase hooks

These hooks are run just before rebooting the node for starting the
post-reboot phase.

=item C<post_reboot> for C<post-reboot> hooks.

These hooks run before CCM initialization.

=back

=over 4

=item C<install> for NBP C<install> hooks

=item C<rescue> for NBP C<rescue> hooks

=item C<boot> for NBP C<boot> hooks

=item C<remove> for NBP C<remove> hooks

=back

=head2 Hook structure

A hook structure has only one mandatory field, named "module". This is
the name of the Perl module that must be loaded and run. The user is
free to add any more fields, just as happens with NCM components.

=head2 Hook API

The following methods are exposed:

=over 4

=item C<new>

Class constructor, without arguments.

=item C<pre_install> C<post_install> C<post_reboot> C<install> C<boot>
C<rescue> C<remove>

For running pre_install, post_install and post_reboot actions on the
Kickstart, and install, boot, rescue or remove actions on the NBP
configuration.

=back


All hook methods, except new, accept these three arguments:

=over 4

=item $self

The object itself

=item $path

The Pan path to the hook being run. This way, the hook can get its
information.

=item $config

The configuration object describing the profile.

=back

The Kickstart file is selected as the default filehandle. Just C<print> the
text you want to see on your Kickstart file.

=head2 An example C<post_reboot> hook

Here is an example on how to do BEgrid's Sindes configuration. The Pan
code looks like this:

 type begrids_hook = {
     "module" : string
     "more_stuf": more_field_types
 };

 bind "/system/aii/hooks/post_reboot/0" = begrids_hook;
  "/system/aii/hooks/post_reboot" = list (
     nlist ("module", "begrid", ...)
 );

And the Perl code that implements this hook is:

 package begrid;
 use strict;
 use warnings;

 sub new {
     my $class = shift;
     return bless {}, $class;
 }


 sub post_reboot {
     my ($self, $config, $path) = @_;

     $self->install_rpms;
     my $t = $config->getElement ("/software/components/sindes")->getTree;
     print <<EOF;
     $t->{aii_route}
     cat <<end_of_get-cert.conf > /etc/sindes/get-cert.conf
     HTTPS_SEL=$t->{http_sel}
     HTTPS_SERVER=$t->{https_server}
     RENEW_CERT_PORT=</software/components/sindes/renew_cert_port>
     NEW_CERT_PORT=</software/components/sindes/new_cert_port>
     #domain name, to be removed from the hostname if it's a FQDN
     DOMAIN_NAME="</software/components/sindes/domain_name>"
     #login/passwd for first certificate request.
     # /!\ beware of chicken & egg problem here.
     USER=
     PASSWD=
     ...
     end_of_get-cert.conf
     EOF
 }

=head2 SEE ALSO

L<aii(8)>, L<aii-ks(8)>

=head2 AUTHORS

Luis Fernando Muñoz Mejías <luisf.munnoz@uam.es>, Ronald Starink
<ronalds@nikhef.nl>

=cut
