# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=pod

=head1 OpenNebula

This document describes AII's OpenNebula hook. It must be called from aii-shellfe 2 or higher.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This AII hook generates the required resources and templates to instantiate/create/remove VMs within an OpenNebula infrastructure.

=head2 RESOURCES


=head3 configure

Generates VM images, generates/updates VM templates and AR Virtual Networks. 
Modify your machine template to:

=over 4

=item * Rename hdx/sdx device disks by vdx to use virtio module

=item * Create or include a new pan file to:

=over 5

=item * Include 'metaconfig/opennebula/schema'

=item * Set the OpenNebula opennebula/datastore name for each vdx

=item * Set the VNETs opennebula/vnet (bridges) required by each VM network interface

=item * (Optional) Set /system/opennebula/ignoremac tree to avoid to include MAC values within AR/VM templates

=item * (Optional) Set /system/opennebula/graphics to export VM graphical display (VNC is used by default)

=item * (Optional) Set /system/opennebula/labels list to include OpenNebula search labels

=item * (Optional) Set /system/opennebula/pci list values to enable PCI Passthrough

=over 6

=item * PCI Passthrough section is also generated based on hardware/cards/<card_type>/<interface>/pci values

=back

=item * (Optional) Set /system/opennebula/diskcache to select the cache mechanism for your disks. (by default is set to none)

=item * (Optional) Set OPENNEBULA_AII_REPLACE_MAC and MAC_PREFIX variables to replace VM MACs to use OpenNebula style

=back

=item * enable acpid service

=back

The next paths are relative to /system/aii/hooks/configure

=over 4

=item * image : boolean

Create VM images. Note: VM images are not updated, if you want to resize or modify an available image from scratch use remove hook first.

=item * template : boolean

Create VM template.

=back

=head3 install

Instantiates the required VM. 
The next paths are relative to /system/aii/hooks/install

=over 4

=item * vm : boolean

The new VM is instantiated after resources creation

=item * onhold : boolean

The VM is instantiated but onhold status instead of running

=back

=head3 remove

Removes the VM resources (template/images/network). 
All these paths are relative to /system/aii/hooks/remove

=over 4

=item * vm : boolean

Stop running VM

=item * image : boolean

Remove image/s

=item * template : boolean

Remove VM templates

=back

=head2 DEPENDENCIES

The AII was tested with OpenNebula version 4.8 and 4.1x

Following package dependencies should be installed to run the AII:

=over

=item * perl-Config-Tiny

=item * perl-CAF

=item * perl-Set-Scalar

=item * perl-Net-OpenNebula >= 0.2.2 !

=back

Set OpenNebula endpoints RPC connector /etc/aii/opennebula.conf

It must include at least one RPC endpoint and password.

To set an https endpoint for example you can use:
 url=https://host.example.com:2633

By default ONE AII uses oneadmin user and port 2633.

It is also possible to set a different endpoint for each VM domain or use a fqdn pattern
as example:

    [rpc]
    password=
    url=https://localhost/RPC2

    [example.com]
    password=
    user=

    [myhosts]
    pattern=myhos\d+.example.com
    password=
    url=http://example.com:2633/RPC2


=head2 AUTHOR

${author-info}

=cut
